UML CLASS DIAGRAM RULES
=======================

Scope
-----
1. Use PlantUML for UML class diagrams.
2. Validate the exact saved PlantUML source with the browser renderer at
   https://plantuml.com/de/ before delivering it.
3. Declare no more than one attribute or method per PlantUML source line.

Type representation
-------------------
4. Mark Java records with the <<record>> stereotype.
5. Mark Java enums explicitly with the <<enum>> stereotype.
6. Hide PlantUML's type-indicating circles with "hide circle".
7. Keep scalar, collection, standard-library and other value-like attributes in
   the owning class or record as "accessModifier name: Type".
8. Do not place an in-scope domain reference type in an attribute compartment.
   Represent each such reference with a full association instead. A reference
   type outside the explicitly requested class set may remain an attribute and
   does not require either a class declaration or an association.
9. Annotate every association-backed attribute with its access modifier, name
   and type, for example "+ resourceAccesses: ResourceAccesses".
10. Use "1" for a mandatory singleton, "0..1" for an optional singleton and
    "*" rather than "0..*" for a collection.

Constraint notes
----------------
11. Put attribute constraints in yellow PlantUML note boxes.
12. Keep an attribute's type in the class compartment or association label; do
    not repeat its type in the yellow note.
13. Structure every constrained note entry as follows:

        attributeName: nullable|nonnull
        - allowed: ...
        - limits: ...
        - regex: ...
        - additional short restriction

14. Use only the applicable detail lines. Do not add an "empty denies" line.
15. Do not use both "allowed" and "regex" for the same attribute. Prefer
    "regex" when a value can be expressed as a pattern or alternation.
16. Distinguish literal string values from descriptive pattern placeholders:
    quote literals such as "*", "localhost" and "Lambda-Expression"; leave
    placeholders such as Java package name, IPv4 and recognised placeholder
    unquoted.
17. In every "|" alternation containing the wildcard "*", put "*" last.
18. Keep the note text short and use one constraint or explanation per line.

Note placement
--------------
19. Place a yellow note on the side of its class opposite the corresponding
    association whenever the layout permits it.
20. If a class has associations on every side, use the least conflicting side,
    normally above the class.

Association direction and layout
--------------------------------
21. State association directions explicitly with left, right or down links.
22. Reinforce important directions with redundant hidden ranking links; do not
    rely on Graphviz's default placement alone.
23. For a central aggregate with six owned attribute classes, place two on its
    left, two below it and two on its right when this arrangement is requested.
24. Use orthogonal association lines.
25. Prolong the distance between classes substantially. Start with:

        skinparam nodesep 170
        skinparam ranksep 220

26. If PlantUML's browser renderer would exceed its 4096-pixel natural-size
    limit, reduce horizontal separation only as far as necessary and retain the
    strongest renderable spacing.

Presentation defaults established for these diagrams
-----------------------------------------------------
27. Use rectangular package boundaries when they do not conflict with an exact
    requested class order. Omit package boundaries when a global row layout is
    required. Use no shadows and top-to-bottom flow.
28. Use a smaller note font where needed to keep large constraint boxes readable
    and renderable.
29. Scale wide output to at most 3800 pixels while preserving the natural layout
    constraints.

Requested class order
---------------------
30. When an exact top-to-bottom row order is supplied, reproduce those rows and
    their stated left-to-right order exactly.
31. Reinforce each requested row with a horizontal hidden ranking link and each
    requested column with vertical hidden ranking links.
32. Do not add a package or section for referenced types outside the explicitly
    requested source set.
33. Use strict centre-aligned columns as the standard for every diagram with a
    row-and-column layout. Make cross-column and secondary relationships
    non-ranking and let an invisible two-dimensional ranking grid determine the
    class positions. Repeat vertical hidden rail links when additional layout
    weight is required.
34. Centre vertical associations and inheritance relationships on the class
    centres whenever the source and target occupy the same column. Treat the
    visible relationship as a ranking lane inside an odd-sized bundle with
    hidden parallel rails, and vary its declaration position until the renderer
    assigns it to the centre lane. Verify the actual SVG endpoints.
35. If a constructor or method parameter list exceeds 100 characters, retain
    the longest prefix of complete parameters that fits within 100 characters
    including the final ", ...", and replace all remaining parameters with
    "...". Never cut a parameter name or type midway.
